Welcome back in this lecture we're going to briefly show you how you can flash messages to a user often
and want to send the message to the user that we don't need to save or fix permanently to the template
page and we really need to save it toward database.
Instead we just want to show a quick either confirmation or message display to the user that they can
then quickly close things like saying thank you for submitting your form on the same page.
What we can do is we can use flash from flask to actually flash a message to the user that can later
on be close by that same user and flask actually makes that really easy.
All you need to do is you import a flash function from flask and then you can connect it to some bootstrap
code where you show you how to do all this.
Keep in mind we're going to be visiting the bootstrap documentation and the link for that code is inside
of the html file for this lecture.
So let's head over to our browser and our text editor.
All right.
Here you have an empty pie script.
We're just going to continue getting practice for our usual imports and our usual setup.
So I'll start from scratch.
We're going to say from flask import flask.
We're also going to be importing rendered template flash which we haven't done before and will say session
redirects and let's say you are l4.
So these are going to be the common imports that you do when actually get these all of them right now.
But just once you get the feel for importing those things often don't say from flask WTA if we're going
to import a flask form and then from W.T. farms import.
And we're gonna have a string field and a submit field.
All right.
Those are all our imports.
We set up our flask application like always passen name.
And then because we actually have a form we need to configure our secret key.
So we all say secret underscore key and then set it equal to some string will say Mikey and then we
can say class and let's just create a very simple form.
So we will call this class simple form and it will inherit from flask form.
And here we're just going to have it say submit equal to submit field click me.
So we're not even going to use a Streatfeild for this very first example.
It's just essentially one button on this form and let's connect that now to the home page will say app
thought route connected to the home page.
Remember when we have a form on this page when you say methods is equal to the list gets and post and
then we'll say index.
Make sure you spell that right.
We're going to create an instance of the form by saying Form is equal to simple form instance of it
and then just like we've done before we'll say if form validate on.
Well no wonder I'm not getting the complete form validate on submit.
I'm going to now call flash and and then be able to flash a message to the user.
So here I imported flash from flask and then I'm going to be able to flash a message to the user upon
submission so we can say a flash and say you just click it's the button and then I'm going to say return
and we're going to redirect your L4 index and then I'm going to have another return and we'll say render
a template and we'll say index the H T.M. where form is the form.
At the very bottom of all this will say if name is Eagleson mean take her app and run it.
I'll say de-bug a sequel to true.
All right so let's break down what we've done here.
I set up my imports create an application set up my secret key have a very very simple form here.
Basically it's just one button.
That's all the user can do that can just hit click me and then all we do is inside of our home page
called index.
We create a simple form and at the very first pass they haven't actually click the button.
Meaning this if statement hasn't executed yet.
So we just render the template for the H T.M. which I have open right here.
There's nothing in it yet.
And then we pass in the form.
Again that's just one button.
Then if the form is valid on submission.
Basically if they click the Submit field then will flash to the user.
Hey you just click the button and then we're going to return a redirect your L for index which basically
means we're going to serve that same home page again.
So now it's actually set up our index h tim L to do this.
Now for this we're going to use a little bit of bootstrap code.
This is the kind of code that you look up in the documentation of bootstrap.
Instead of having to memorize it let me show you where I can find this code on the bootstrap documentation.
So I have here the bootstrap docs right now we're looking at the version for 4.1.
We should be able to do this for the various versions.
Go ahead and click on the documentation and then what you're looking for is a alert component.
So if we come here to components it's actually the very first one is called alerts and then you see
various examples of alerts.
Here we can see some very simple alerts that essentially when someone said hello you can see the various
colors and the classes that are associated with them.
So we have class alert alert primary and you also say roll alert.
You'll notice the links on these alerts.
So here's a secondary alert link example.
You also see additional content so you can kind of large alerts here and then you have one that's a
little more complicated this dismissing.
So that's the one we're going to be using and I'm going to zoom in here.
So it says Holywell Kamali you should check in some of these fields below.
So that's the alert we're going to kind of show.
And what's also nice is it has a little dismiss button.
So we're going to be able to exit out of this and then the alert goes away.
And this is the code we're going to be using here.
So in case you're wondering where the heck did this code come from.
It's coming from this bootstrap page for this missing.
And you can either copy it directly from the documentation here and then edit it or you can copy and
paste it from are provided notes.
So let's get started.
Since we're using an alert we're going to need to connect not just the stylesheet for bootstrap But
we also need connect to Jake Query.
And again let me just bring in the documentation real quick second show where this coat's coming from.
If you go back to home notice we have the CSSA only.
That's just for the styling since we actually have interactivity on the page.
We're going to need to copy and paste these three lines as well.
You're going to put those all in the head of your T.M..
So go ahead and type out HTL led auto complete and then inside this head you're going to copy and paste
those four lines of code.
So from the documentation inside the head I'm going to copy and paste the stylesheet that's that C Ss
and then the three source lines for Jake Query.
So there's our head.
And then we have the body.
So what we're going to do now is essentially copy and paste from that bootstrap page that described
how to actually display the flashed messages in order to do this.
We're going to do is the following were to say a little bit of control flow logic for mess in get flashed
messages and then here we're going to say and for me explain what this block of code is doing right
now you maybe wondering where is this get flash messages come from.
Because it's actually not in the bootstrap code.
This get flashed messages is what gets passed back when you call flash function from flask.
So again when you call flash that you import up here what happens is flask then automatically sends
back this object called Get Flast messages.
And the reason we do a for loop here is because you may have multiple flashes.
You could do something like Flash.
You click the button and then have another flash.
Hey how is it going.
And so on.
So we'll just do one single flash right now.
But it sends back an iterator of all these flashes.
So that way you can actually loop through it and if you only have one you can still use this for mass
and get flash messages.
And then we're going to do is use that code from the bootstrap.
I'm actually going to type it up manually so I can kind of explain what's going on.
Essentially it's a giant class called for alert and we say alerts alert warning alert and then call
alert dismissable.
And that actually allows the user to close it and then we'll say fade and then show the also pretty
much defines how it goes A-Whale slowly fade away.
Again these are all class calls and the last thing I want to say is its role is an alert
and then we're going to do is we're going to define it as a little button at the top which is going
to look like an X.
So we say type as Button will say the class of this is close which gives it that shape and then we have
a couple more parameters here will say data dash dismiss is equal to alerts.
And we actually don't need to provide a name for this button.
Pups will delete both on invalid and name there.
We have to dismiss alert.
And then we have an aria label and set that equal to close.
And then we can set the other class equal to fade fade space close
and actually looks like I already have a class here so let me just delete this class.
Let's let's make sure we don't delete that and the tide is going to add fade to the sky over here at
the top you go fake close.
OK.
So again this is somebody just copied and pasted this section from that bootstrap documentation that
we just showed.
And then the last thing we're going to do is say Spanne inside this band will say aria that hidden we'll
say true and then hear what we can do is the following will say ampersands times semi colon we and our
button there and then we're going to insert mass as a variable and then say and for.
OK so that's technically all the code we need for the splaying that flash and then right below it we're
going to set up that form which is just a single button.
So the form we don't need to worry about class or action because that's being taken care of by flask
for us we'll say post.
And just to make sure we don't get any errors we'll capitalize it and then we'll do the following we'll
create our hidden tag we'll say form thought hidden underscore tag open close print princes and then
we'll have that form that submit button OK.
Save that.
Now I know there's a lot of complicated bootstrap going on here.
So I really want to clarify.
I would never memorize all of this.
I would just go to the documentation and copy and paste it and then adjust as needed.
So keep in mind that's why you're seeing so many calls of like span's classes all this giant class.
That's not the kind of stuff you need to memorize.
Well you do need to memorize or essentially understand is that you call get Flast messages and then
you can do something for that and you're inserting that mess.
So let's break down let's actually happening here.
We have a basic that pi.
I create a very simple form of a submit button.
If that form is valid upon clicking submit I call flash.
You just click the button and then I redirect them to that same index page.
Upon calling flash what happens is an object called Get Flast messages is now available for you in the
template.
And that happens automatically.
You don't need to pass it in as a parameter.
Then you save for every message and get Flast messages.
And typically just one be you may have multiple flash alerts.
You can then do something using bootstrap and then insert the message there.
If you don't use this bootstrap then it's really not going to be dismissible.
Instead you'll just see that message suddenly pop up.
So it's a mess.
OK.
So again all this code that's essentially just the bootstrap link that I showed you there.
And you can edit it as needed.
So let's save this and make sure all worked out for us.
Well say Python.
Basic thought PI enter.
It looks like it's running.
Let's make sure we didn't accidentally have a typo anywhere.
We'll visit the page and your page should look something like this.
Just a simple click the button nose starts to look like bootstrap.
They say click me and it says you just click the button.
Now there's a little expert in there.
I close it and it fades away.
And I say click me.
You just click the button close it and it fades away.
All right.
That's really the basics of using flash.
And you can expand this example to then start flashing information to the user based off what they selected.
And we're going to show you how to do that in the very next lecture.
Essentially we're going to do is add a new field to this form maybe a selection breed and then save
that to a session and report Black in a flash form.
What they just chose will be a little code along project to end this section of course on fields and
forms.
The idea is you should have gone from the section or just how to create a form and then how to validate
it on submission and then do something with that information such as flushing it saving it to the session
and then redirecting to another page.
That's really the main concept so we're trying to hit on in this section.
This Flash is a kind of an extra little bonus on top of that.
And then the bootstrap is just a nice way to format those flashed messages you technically don't need
to do that.
All right.
Let's finish up the section of the course by going to the next lecture and doing a little code along
project to kind of finish and wrap everything up.
We'll see it there.